Now in this lecture,
I'd like to give you an overview of a tool
that we're gonna be using often in this course.
This tool is great for information gathering
and allows you to gather information just about anything.
You can gather information about people,
you can gather information about websites, computers,
companies, phone, numbers, everything,
really everything you can think of.
You can add to this tool
and try to extract information related to that entity,
The tool is called Maltego
and it's gonna become your best friend
when it comes to information gathering.
Now, like I said,
the tool can be used to gather information about anything,
but using the tool is the same.
So it doesn't matter if your target is a website,
if it's a person, if it's a phone number, if it's a company,
it doesn't really matter.
Using the tool is exactly the same
but only the information that you'll be getting
is gonna be different.
So in this lecture,
we're gonna have a quick overview over this tool,
and then we're gonna be using it more
in the next lectures.
So, first of all, to run the tool,
just go to the more applications right here,
and then just type in, Maltego.
And you can see that the tool comes up in here
and it's called maltegoce.
The first time you're on the tool,
you'll be asked to login with a username and a password.
If you don't have one,
you'll have to register through the wizard that you'll see.
So just create a new username a new password
and then they'll send you an activation link to your email,
activate your account,
and then you'll be able to login and use the tool.
Now, as you can see,
I've already logged in and it's offering me
to use one of the already made templates
for gathering information.
I'm not gonna use any of that,
so I'm just gonna click on the Cancel right here.
In here you can see that we have the homepage
for the tool.
And from here, you can add more transformers to the tool.
Basically transformers are plugins
that allow you to gather information about specific things.
So you can literally just click on Install on any of these,
and it'll add basically more transformers
or more things that you can do with Maltego.
A lot of these extra transformers will ask you to login
with the username and a password or use a certain API.
For now, we're just gonna use the built-in transformers.
And I'm just gonna go on right here to create a new graph.
And this is the main workplace of Maltego.
So in the middle, we have our graph.
So here is where you're gonna be seeing your entities,
where you're gonna be seeing the information.
In here you'll have an overview of the graph,
and in here you'll have details about each entity
in the graph.
And in here at the bottom right
you'll be able change the properties
for each of these entities.
All of this is empty now on all of this is vague
I know for you, but once we start using the tool,
it'll start making sense straight away.
On the left, we have our entities.
They're organized in categories right here,
depending on the type of these entities.
So for example, if we click on the Infrastructure,
it'll allow you to add a domain name,
you can add MX records, you can add URLs,
or you can add a website.
So you can literally just drag and drop
the entity that you want.
And now we have our website in the graph.
And from here,
we can start gathering information about this website.
There's a lot of different types of entities,
so you can add a device from here.
You can, for example, if we go to Personal,
you'll see that you can actually just add the person.
So literally you can just add the person,
give their first name, their second name,
and then you'll be able
to gather information about this person.
You can also add a phone number,
again, put the phone number
and start gathering information about it.
And one of the really cool categories right here
is the social links,
which will allow you to add Facebook entities.
It'll allow you add GitHub, Foursquare, LinkedIn, Instagram,
and other social networks.
And with that, once you add them,
you'll be able to gather information about these entities.
And obviously this information will really help you
when it comes to trying to exploit that person
and hack into their system.
Now, once you add the entity in here,
if we click on the website, for example,
I'm just gonna go on the Property View.
And you'll see that in here,
I can modify the properties for this website.
So for example,
the first thing that we need to change
is put the name of our target website in here.
And once we do that,
we can right click and select what type of information
we want to gather.
Now I'm not gonna run any transformers in this video.
We're gonna do it in next videos.
For now, I'm just showing you a quick overview of the tool,
how to add identities, how to run transformers.
And what do we mean by all of these things.
I know a lot of this is still a bit vague,
but we're gonna be using this tool a lot in the course,
and it's gonna become very easy for you.
And as I said,
you're gonna be able to use it to gather information
about anything.
And it's really gonna help you enhance
your social engineering skills.
Please note that right now
you are using the free version of Maltego.
The free version is great
at gathering all sorts of information,
but it doesn't allow you to use search engines
and a few other features.
That's why in the next lectures,
I'm gonna be using the paid version.
You can actually request a free trial
from the link in the resources of this lecture.
Just explain to them that you are a student
and they'll happily give you trial access,
which you can use to do everything
that I'm gonna show you in the next lectures.
I know there are a lot of other free
information gathering tools,
but in my opinion,
they do not even come close to Maltego.
Maltego is the best at information gathering.
And that's why I use it and I teach my students to use it.
Think of it this way, if you're learning how to design,
would you rather learn how to do it using paint,
which is free,
or would you want to use the best design software
such as Photoshop.